# Unconditional Love

I was once bothered that I could not find any reasons for which I
should love myself. I mean, sure, I have wonderful handwriting and a
moderately good looking nose, but really, deep down inside I never
felt I was a lovable person.

I started wondering why God, the ultimate embodiment of love, loves
us, hoping to find some way in which I could love myself.

If we believe that God loves us all unconditionally, and we are
God-like spiritual beings, capable of expressing at least some of His
divine attributes, we should learn to love ourselves unconditionally
as well. It was very foolish of me to try and find reasons to love
myself, when the Lord Himself doesn't need any.

We are not meant to love ourselves because of some concrete
reason. There needs to be NO REASON for which we should love
ourselves! This is the essence of unconditional love.

We can also learn to conditionally appreciate ourselves for our good
qualities, strengths and the things that make us unique, but the core
foundation of our love has to be the same unconditional love by which
we are loved by God. Anything else shall fail.

When we love like God, all our mistakes, unpolished rough edges,
embarrassments and moral failures will not have any influence in what
we feel about ourselves at the deepest level. We don't have to settle
for mere self acceptance anymore.

It is with this same unconditional love that we are to equally love
those we come in contact with in our daily lives. Nothing more is
required, and nothing less shall be acceptable. This is impossibly
hard, and it will make it clear whether the love of God is truly
within us.

Once we have learned to love ourselves with God's unconditional love
us, anything more that that we have the opportunity to give, and
perhaps, receive, is merely a divine privilege.
