Trip to Dangs District, Gujarat

After last year's enlightening trip to Bihar, my expectations for this
trip were high. However, upon learning that it is going to be a road
trip in a Tempo Traveller, I was apprehensive to the idea, and as it
turns out, they were well-founded.

Let us get the bad stuff out of the way first. Comfort was a wistful
luxury inside the Tempo. It is a vehicle designed to stuff in as much
as possible without requiring a heavy vehicle license to
drive. Unsurprisingly, it is cramped and uncomfortable; sitting in the back row did not help either.

Some consolation that the Tempo was air-conditioned, but as we learnt
over the course of the trip, that on uphill climbs, the AC stops so
that all possible energy is devoted to hauling us up the hill. Opening
the windows was a more effective cooling measure.

After the initial disappointment, my mood was lifted somewhat when we
started practising singing some Gujarati songs, which we were planning
to sing for the locals later.

Upon reaching the hotel, we ate a Gujarati Thali, consisting of
freshly cooked rotis, various vegetable dishes, buttermilk and gulab
jamuns for dessert.

After getting settled in our rooms, we immediately proceeded to the
first village church of the day.

It was a short drive from the hotel. It was a typical rural scene of
farm land, farm animals and houses. The church was a small building
with wooden beams, and a tiled roof. There were some people there, and
they were glad to meet us, and greeted us with a handshake saying the
ancient greeting "Salaam" meaning "peace". Over the next three days,
that would be one of our most used words.

Before every meeting, a small hand-held bell would be rung and within
ten minutes or so, everyone available from the houses nearby makes
their way into the church.

The village meeting was interesting to see. The meeting always starts
with a time of singing. The singing is loud with the entire
congregation singing and the musicians playing the dhol, cymbals and
lots of enthusiastic clapping.

The songs are structured in such a way in which the leading singer
sings a stanza, and then the congregation repeats the stanza. One of
the members — usually a lady — would take the lead and the entire
congregation would organically join in the singing. The percussion
would stop at the exact moment at the end of the song.

The format of the meeting was the same in every place. First, the
locals would sing some songs in the Dangi language, and then we would
sing some songs in Hindi and/or Gujarati, followed by greetings by our
Pastor which would be translated for the congregation. It would end
with some refreshments being served usually tea, or boiled milk.

The Dangi language is a mixture of Marathi and Gujarati, and after
having spent several years in Pune, I could understand a few fragments
of sentences, much to my satisfaction. However the Bibles they were
using were written in Gujarati. A little girl mentioned that in
school, she learns Gujarati, Hindi, Sanskrit and English in addition
to the usual subjects like Maths and History, which was impressive.

After visiting two churches with the above mentioned format, we went
to a larger church where there were a more people. The Gujarati songs,
proved to be a great hit, and the entire congregation was dancing
along and the musicians would join in and drown us almost completely
even though we had mics, and we did not mind at all, as we were unable
to compete on the singing front, in the respective areas of quality
and volume.

In every place that we visited, the food was rustic, but served with
so much love, I felt guilty that we were receiving so much from them,
yet we have not done anything for them.

The food consisted of bhakri and country chicken (not industrial
broiler chicken) which followed by rice and dal. It tasted great, and
the hospitality was heart-warming.

It was brought to our attention that the current government has done a
lot for sanitation in the area, and it was nice to see that every
house had a small outhouse toilet of sorts which was sponsored by the
government.

The highlight of the trip was a twenty minute conversation I had with
one of the locals. He explained the history of the region and how
things came to be in this manner. I came away greatly encouraged at
the strength of his conviction, and faith in God, in a time where
strong conviction and strong faith are rarer than they have ever been.

We went to these tribal areas to learn about their way of life, and
what kind of work is going on in the region. We came away with an
enormous respect for them.

They eat better and healthier food than us.
They have better air to breathe.
They have better sanitation.
They have a better feeling of community.
They have a feeling of oneness with the land that they farm, and their
animals.

In addition to all these things, they have a superlative night sky to
see innumerable stars and perhaps all the new celestial objects
currently being placed there by Mr. Musk. (It remains to be seen
whether it will fulfil the promise of high-speed internet for all
humankind.)

In almost every metric, their way of life is better than ours. I felt
humbled, that we have nothing to offer them — nothing that would
improve their lives in a meaningful way. They do have mobile phones,
but the lack of good connectivity ensures that they are not staring
emptily at the small screens of digital cocaine.

Perhaps the one-off time they are in need to modern medicine, they
could avail the facilities of an urban hospital, but other than that
they have got everything physical, material and spiritual.

Perhaps they would be impressed to see our large concrete jungles, and
wild peak-hour Pune traffic, but if I could imagine myself as one of
them visiting the city for the first time I would ask: "Surely you can
spread out a little more?"
