Me vs Tertiary Education: Scores Level 1-1 at Halftime

Half of college is over. Half of the supposedly most fun time in a
person's life - is now over. This has a scary corollary: there's only
a half left! As this coincides with the last few days of my teenage
years, it's a good time to reflect on what has been and look ahead to
the future.

I wish I had this realisation earlier: "Our colleges are talent
factories for the corporate workforce.". Placements supposedly are
what we are all striving for. Getting a salary after four years is
pretty neat, but it is not for everyone. I'm not saying it is not for
me, I just haven't completely made up my mind as to what I'd like to
do.

Getting an education is my first priority. I have the satisfaction of
always having done my best to do so. It is unfortunate that sometimes
college comes in the way.

I still haven't learned how to program. While I can write code in a
few languages, I don't feel like a programmer, yet. I guess that'll
only come after I make or contribute something non-trivial. It's been
quite fun trying to learn, though.

CS was the right choice. Looking back, it has been enjoyable to learn
about so many interesting things. I find it interesting enough to
consider higher studies in CS. CS has been so interesting that I've
put some other things that I want to learn, on hold. There's just no
time for everything!

I plan to write the GATE (hopefully, well) this year. It will be a
challenge, but I look forward to it. GATE may be my only chance for
IIT-JEE-AIEEE-BITSAT-VITEE-EAMCET : ..( redemption. Considering the
enormous amount of stuff I have to learn, there isn't much time left.
